#summary This page lists the agenda for the geospatial tools and technologies events that will take place on Monday 28th & Tuesday the 29th of November 2011 in London.
#labels event,PageType-ProgrammeDocumentation

The [http://twitter.com/#!/search/jiscgeo twitter hastag] for this event is #jiscGEO

= Geospatial Tools & Tech Events Overview =

== When ==
Please note that there are several Geospatial related events happening the Week of November 28th - December 1st (2011).  The main event is happening on the first day with the awards party happening that Monday evening.  

In summary, the following events are taking place (please see below for detailed agenda):
  * *Monday* (Nov 28) 9.30am-5.30pm: JISCgeo Innovation Programme Meeting (New Geospatial Tech & Tool Product Launch) - this is a free and open event that anyone from the Academic sector can attend. 
    * Mon Night (Nov 28) 7pm - 11pm = JISC Geospatial Innovation Awards Dinner
  * *Tuesday* (Nov 29) 10.30am - 4pm = JISCgeo Programme Meeting (Pathways to Sustainability) - this is a free and open event that anyone can attend. 
  * *Wednesday* (Nov 30) 9.30am-5pm = Space Time Workshop - this is a free and open event that anyone can attend. (30ppl max)
  * *Wednesday* (run separate from above space time workshop) (Nov 30) 10am-2pm = JISCgeo Product Review Panel Meeting - this is an invitation only event. (15ppl max)
  * *Thursday* (Dec 1) 11am-4pm = Geospatial Services Review Workshop - this is an invitation only event. (20ppl max) 

== Where ==
Ravensborough College in London (next to the Millenium Dome). 
  * Tube Stop: North Greenwich (see below for picture).
  * For accommodation see comments section at the bottom of this page.

== Who ==
This is an open event that anyone is welcome to attend, however this event is specifically for the set of innovation projects that make up the "JISCgeo Programme" of work and so the emphasis will be on the new geospatial products they have produced via their year long projects and how they will improve the use of these tools and technologies for students, researchers, and lecturers.  Participants should have (at a minimum) an understanding of technology (e.g. do you own an iPhone and/or Android and know the difference?) and also some understanding of geospatial technologies and how they work (e.g. do you know the difference between Google Earth and Google Maps?).

== What == 
The JISCgeo Projects are made up of a dozen projects who have worked for the past year on demonstrating the value of geospatial technologies in the UK Higher and Further Education (University) sector.  This meeting is their opportunity to show off what they have created and demonstrate its value for students, researchers and lecturers.  Some of the events will use a organising strategy known as an "unconference" event to encourage networking and showcasing of products.

== Register ==
REGISTRATION IS NOW CLOSED, PLEASE EMAIL D.FLANDERS@JISC.AC.UK IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND ONE OR MORE OF THE DAYS AD HOC.

----
----

= Detailed (Live) Agenda =
This agenda is ALIVE! and will change based on the activities and participation of the people on the day, so please don't waste the paper by printing it (this LIVE agenda will be projected at the venue throughout the day)
----


== Monday 28th November ==
Event Day Title: JISCgeo Programme Meeting
  * Event Type: Unconference (Day 1)
  * Rooms: 702/703
  * Time: Start 9am / End 5.30pm (not including evening awards party which starts at 6pm)
  * Objectives for the Day:  Launch and demonstrate the new innovative products that students, researchers and teacher use to enhance use of geospatial technologies.

Day 1 Agenda:
  * 9.30am - Welcome and orientation.
  * 10.00am - Keynote: Julie Sweetkind-Singer (Assistant Director of Geospatial, Cartographic and Scientific Data & Services, Stanford University)
  * 11am - Tea / Coffee
  * 11.30am - Introduction to the products on display for the day, by David F. Flanders (JISC Programme Manager for Geospatial)
  * Noon - Lunch and Networking

_NOTE: The afternoon sessions will be run in the style of an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconference "unconference"] whereby participants are urged to use the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Space_Technology#Law_of_Two_Feet "rule of two feet"] by circulating around the room to experience each of the different projects and their products as they are demonstrated (a kind of mini 'trade show', if you will)._

Tea and Coffee will be available on tap in the 'Kitchenette area' throughout the afternoon - have you had your "water cooler moment" yet?

  * 1pm to 2.30pm - Unconference Session no.1 
    * Table 1: The Gemma Project (#gemmaProject), see: http://gemma.blogs.casa.ucl.ac.uk/ 
    * Table 2: The Leaf Watch Project (#naturelLocator), see: http://naturelocator.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
    * Table 3: The GeoSciTeach Project (#geoSciTeach), see: http://geosciteach.wordpress.com 
    * Table 4: The G3 Project (#jiscG3), see: http://jiscg3.blogspot.com/
    * Table 5: The ELOgeo Project (#elogeo), see: http://elogeo.blogspot.com 
    * Table 6: Geospatial community events (#jiscGECO), see: http://geco.blogs.edina.ac.uk/
  * 2.30pm to 4pm - Unconference Session no.2
    * Table 1: The Pelagios Project (#pelagios), see: http://pelagios-project.blogspot.com/
    * Table 2: The GeoCrimeData (#geoCrimeData), see: http://geocrimedata.blogspot.com/
    * Table 3: The Halogen Project (#halogen2), see: http://leicesterhalogen2.blogspot.com/
    * Table 4: The U-Geo Project (#geoUKDA), see: http://geoukda.wordpress.com/ 
    * Table 5: The iGibs Project (#iGibs), see: http://igibs.blogs.edina.ac.uk/
    * Table 6: Geospatial community events (#jiscGECO), see: http://geco.blogs.edina.ac.uk/
  * 4pm to 5.30pm - Unconference Session no.3
    * Table 1: The xEvents Project (#xEvents), see: http://xevents-blog.sas.ac.uk/
    * Table 2: The STEEV Project (#e3viz) http://steev.blogs.edina.ac.uk/
    * Table 3: Wisard, see: http://www.wiserd.ac.uk/
    * Table 4: HistoryPin, see: http://www.historypin.com/
    * Table 5: Advice on Inspire (#jiscGECO), see: http://geco.blogs.edina.ac.uk/category/inspire/
    * Table 6: Geospatial community events (#jiscGECO), see: http://geco.blogs.edina.ac.uk/
  * 5.30pm - Wrap Up
    * Ballot vote for 'Geospatial Tech/Tool Project of the Year'.
    * Directions to dinner and awards venue.
 
=== Evening of Mon 28th Nov ===
Location: Inside the Millennium Dome - Alphabet City
  * Objective of the Evening: celebrate the delivery of new innovative geospatial tools and tech for Universities and Colleges!
  * Start: 6pm / End: 11pm

Awards to be given to the JISCgeo Community of Projects:
  * Project Manager of the Year
  * Project Developer of the Year
  * Project Blog Post (single entry) of the Year
  * Project Blog (overall) of the Year
  * Project of the Year

_NB: The "Project *Product* of the Year" (the penultimate award) will be announced in the following weeks after the event once the marking panel has agreed their marks, stay tuned to the [http://geco.blogs.edina.ac.uk/ #jiscGECO blog] for the announcement.


----
----



== Tuesday 29th November ==
  * *Event Day Title*: JISCgeo Programme Meeting
  * Event type: Unconference (Day 2)
  * *Objective of the Day*: The Future of Geospatial
  * *Rooms*: 702/703
  * *Time*: Start 10.30am / End 4pm
  
NOTE: The space will be open with tea and coffee available from 9am onwards for anyone who needs to use the wifi, do email, personal tasks, etc.
  * 11am - Welcome and Orientation: How to participate in this version of an Unconference.

Unconference Session no.1: 
  * 11.30am to 12.30 - Presentation on Training Non-GIS Experts in the use of Geospatial Tools and Technologies at Stanford University by Patricia Carbajales & Nicole Coleman
  * 12.30 to 1pm - Breakout Discussion Groups based on Presentation and its Q&A
    * Table 1 Topic: 
      * Scribe:
    * Table 2 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 3 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 4 Topic:
      * Scribe: 

Lunch: 
  * 1pm to 1.30pm - Serving...

Unconference Session no.2: 
  * 1.30 to 2pm - Presentation of an 'Emerging Geospatial Innovation Themes Map for UK Universties and Colleges' by Gregory Marler (Programme Evidence Gatherer for the JISCgeo Programme), No More Grapes Ltd.
  * 2pm to 2.30pm - Breakout Discussion Groups
    * Table 1 Topic: 
      * Scribe:
    * Table 2 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 3 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 4 Topic:
      * Scribe: 

Unconference Session no.3: 
  * 2.30pm to 3pm - Presentation on 'The Myth that is Project Sustainability' and 'Future Strategic Funding Areas for JISC' by David F. Flanders (JISC Programme Manager)
  * 3pm to 3.30pm - Breakout Discussion Groups
    * Table 1 Topic: 
      * Scribe:
    * Table 2 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 3 Topic:
      * Scribe: 
    * Table 4 Topic:
      * Scribe: 

Unconference Wrap-up and Close (for those who are staying on for one of the follow up events on Wednesday or Thursday):
  *  3.30pm to 4pm - So what is happening the next two days on Wednesday Nov 30th and Thursday Dec 1st?


----
----



== Wednesday 30th November ==
Space and Time in the Digital Humanities Workshop, hosted by NeDiMAH and JISC.
  * Start: 9.30am / End: 5pm
  * Event Themes: "Place, Period, Event - Entity-based Approaches to Space and Time"
  * Description: This workshop will focus on conceptual approaches to space and time, as opposed to geometric and coordinate based-methods. Such approaches have proven useful in contexts in which exact spatial location is either unknown, uncertain or irrelevant, and can also prove powerful catalysts for establishing connections between heterogeneous data (Linked Open Data). Services that provide such conceptual frameworks can also provide useful additional information, such as alternative toponyms, coordinates and categorical information. Three panel sessions will be dedicated to applying these methods to Places, Periods and Events.  A fourth session will open up these topics to discussion by all participants. The workshop will be held in conjunction with the Pelagios2 Workshop on Connecting Ancient World Data (1st December) at the same venue, and participants are warmly invited to attend both of them.

Confirmed speakers: Ceri Binding, Tom Elliott, Peter Sefton, Ryan Shaw, Humphrey Southall (additional speakers TBC)

  * 9.30am - Orientation and Introductions
  * 10:00 Panel Session on 'Places'
  * 11.15 COFFEE / TEA
  * 11:45 Panel Session on 'Periods'
  * 1pm LUNCH
  * 2:00 Panel Session on 'Events'
  * 3:15 COFFEE / TEA
  * 3.45 Open Forum Discussion on Space Time
  * 5.00 Close.

----
----


== Wednesday 30th of November ==
*jiscGEO Product Review Panel* _note: this event is invitation only and will be run separate to the NeDiMAH Space and Time workshop happening on the same day (see above)_
   * Start/End Times: 10am-2pm (followed by a sit down lunch at Chiquitos)
   * Description: Each #jiscGEO project has produced a final product that will be reviewed by a group of panelists.  Each product will be reviewed by three types of panellists: a.) usability expert looking for ease of usability and likelihood of reuse, b.) technical expert reviewing feasibility for improvements by other developers, c.) business expert evaluating the value for Universities and Colleges.  Each of these experts will be asked to provide a recommendation for how mature the product is and the likelihood of the product being further advanced.  JISC will use these recommendations to decide if further follow-on funding would be of value so project can complete their product and deliver it to the wider Universities and Colleges sector for reuse.  
  * Disclaimer: It is important to note that this review is explicitly looking for the capability of reuse for a single product and is not determining the actual value that the project on the whole has brought to the sector or the host institution.  Most JISC projects are of greatest value to the institution because of their capabilities of improving skills of staff which in turn enable the institution's capabilities.  It is hoped that any and all feedback provided from the panel will be seen in the light in which it is given, which is to help provide a testing mechanism for the project.


----
----

== Thursday 1st of December ==
*Pelagios2 Project Workshop* (this is a seperate event to the jiscGEO Activities - though we fully support this project as it continues to grow beyond its humble beginning as part of the jiscGEO programme).  Accordingly, if you want to attend this event you will need to register separately at this link:

http://pelagios2.eventbrite.co.uk/

The Pelagios2 workshop will focus on the practical aspects of linking together open Humanities resources by means of shared entity URIs. It will take the form of hands-on group work. The ultimate goal of the workshop is to:
   * Develop scenarios for interconnectivity which may be of interest to the Humanities community
   * Identify which scenarios could be “quick wins” that are easy to achieve, and those which are challenging and could be part of a longer-term vision
   * Identify the pain points involved in connecting online humanities data

In order to facilitate interaction and communication between participants, group work will be carried out in two groups (“humanities” and “tech”), in three parallel working sessions, with communication and discussion in between. Groups will be chaired in an “inverted management” fashion: i.e. the humanities group will be chaired by a representative of the “tech” community and vice versa, with an additional “mediator” bouncing in between the groups. Common outcomes and results will be discussed, summarized and prioritized in a fourth wrap-up session. 
 
The themes and goals of the “humanities” working sessions will be:
   * H1)	Data and resources in the digital humanities – the group will document what data they are using right now as part of their research, what other (open) data is available, how it is being used, etc.
   * H2) 	Informational structure and licensing – for some of the resources identified in H1, the group will document its informational structure: what’s in the data, how it is logically structured (in particular regarding the representation of space, place and time periods). The group should also document data resources’ licensing terms.
   * H3)	New research avenues– Based on H1, H2 and T2, the group should identify intersection points between data resources which may have the potential to enhance future humanities research.
 
The themes and goals of the “tech” working sessions will be:

   * T1)	Tools and methods – the group should document what digital tools and methods they are using as part of their work with data, visualization, analysis, etc.
   * T2)	Data Opportunities and Challenges – the group should discuss and document the technical/methodological opportunities and challenges that exist for obtaining and processing the data catalogues in session H1 (e.g. issues of data normalization, data triage, etc.)
   * T3)	Quick wins – based on the results of T1, T2, and H2, the group will experiment with data intersection scenarios which may provide “quick wins” (e.g. in terms of interoperability, visualization, analysis) from a technical point of view.

The final discussion will compare the list of ‘quick wins’ and research avenues produced by H3 and T3 in order to identify ‘low-hanging fruit’: those points of intersection between independent resources that are both comparatively easy to achieve and could open up new avenues in Humanities research.

Start/Finish Times: 9:00-5:30


----


== Thursday 1 December ==
_note: this is an invite only event_
  * Event Title: Geospatial Resource Review - Services Scoping 2012-2015 Workshop
  * Objective: to look over geospatial resources that .AC.UK users use and list use cases for each of these geospatial resource types.
  * Start/End: 11am - 4pm

Agenda to follow:
  * 11am: Welcome, Housekeeping, Orientation and Introductions - David
  * 11:15: Context of this workshop for the service Review - Abi
  * 11:20: Overview of the Day - how is this going to work? - Ian
  * 11:30: Use Case (user story) Brainstorm (session no.1): 4 Use Cases: Lecturer, Researcher, Undergrad, Grad - identify 4 different subject disciplines for each and then pick your favourite 
  * 12:00: Each Group Reports back Favorite Use Case
  * 12:30 Introduce geospatial resources spreadsheet - Alison
  * 12:40: Add resource types from spreadsheet to favorite use case, noting any resources not listed
  * 1pm: Lunch
  * 1.30pm: Brainstorm further Use Cases (session no.2) > Pick Favorite Use Case > Add Resources from [we now have 8 detailed cases] 
  * 2.30: Review use cases > Discussion: what is there and what isn't there? (missing geospatial children)
    * What resources are not in the JISC family? <-- List resources that are missing on its own 
    * How can we express additional use cases so we can make a case for these missing resources?
    * Whom else is going to add additional use cases? <-- consultation process during December.
  * 3pm: Working Tea Break:
    * add additional missing geospatial resource 
    * dotmocracy for most needed missing geospatial resource
  * 3.30: Discussion: Further consultation for both frameworks - Abi
    * Timeline for consultation and final sign off for frameworks... sign off by JISC bosses... agreemtn for service review.
  * 4pm - End

----
----

== Friday 2 December ==
Pelagios Project Team meeting:
note this is an invite only event, please contact leifuss@googlemail.com if interested in participating.

-----
-----
Attending:

Daniel	Alves
Gabriel	Amable
Suchith	Anand
Tom	Armitage
Chris	Bailey
Angela	Baker
Elton	Barker
Julia	Barrett
Robert	Berry
Ceri	Binding
Andrew	Bradley
Rob	Bristow
Olly	Butters
Kate	Byrne
Patricia	Carbajales
David	Carter
Nicole	Coleman
Ian	Cooper
Paul	Davies
Shawn	Day
Matthew	Dovey
Steve	Dunn
Stuart	Dunn 
Alastair	Dunning
Alexander	Dutton
Jason	Dykes
Øyvind	Eide
Tom	Elliott
Tom	Ensom
William	Farr
Elizabeth	Fitzgerald
David F.	Flanders
Dan	Fower
Richard	Fry
Steven	Gray
Muki	Haklay
Mark	Hedges
Chris	Higgins
Alexander	Hirschfield
Simon	Hodson
Mark	Holton
Andrew	Hudson-Smith
Eero	Hyvonen
Leif	Isaksen
Mike	Jackson
Neil	Jakeman
Krzysztof	Janowicz
Mike	Jones
Dave	Kilbey
Kamie	Kitmitto
Kimberly	Kowal
Rasmus	Krempel
Peter	Lakin
Simon	Lannon
Didier	Leibovici
Stuart	Macdonald
Eetu	Mäkelä
Nick	Malleson
Glauco	Mantegari
Gregory	Marler
Keith	May
Guy	McGarva
Andy	McGregor
Alison	McLeod
Gail	Millin-Chalabi
Jeremy	Morley
Jan-Peter	Muller
Andrew	Newton
Franco	Niccolucci
Abiodun	Obafemi
Oliver	O'Brien
Dominic	Oldman
Scott	Orford
Nicola	Osborne
Addy	Pope
Amir	Pourabdollah
Mark	Power
Sara	Price
Simon	Price
Sebastian	Rahtz
Gethin	Rees
Cindy	Regalado
James	Reid
Patrick	Rickles
Mia	Ridge
Jason	Sawle
Ash	Scheder Black
Simon	Scheider
Peter	Sefton
Ryan	Shaw
Ben	Showers
Luis	Silveira
Rainer	Simon
Jeanie	Sinclair
Mark	Smith
Teresa	Smith
Conor	Smyth
Humphrey	Southall
Laura	Spinsanti
Julie	Sweetkind-Singer
James Stuart	Taylor
Jonathan	Tedds
Jasper	Tredgold
Richard	Tyler
Veerle	Van den Eynden
Steve	Walsh
Gary	Watmough
Patrick	Weber
Jonathan	Whitson Cloud
Rebecca	Wilson
Sofia	Zoitou