#summary This page lists the documentation jiscGEO projects are required to submit as per their Grant funding.
#labels ProgrammeDocumentation

*_Please do acknowledge the reading of this document by leaving a comment at the end of it (in the comments section), your feedback on this process is greatly appreciated._*

= Introduction to Project Documentation =
All JISC projects are *required* to complete documentation.  While documentation can be laborious, it is important to view documentation as the way the story of your project can be told to others!  Documentation is there to help spread good practice amongst our community and to help you to effectively plan the work you want to achieve. For the jiscGEO set of projects we have attempted to scope all documentation so you can directly see the benefits that documentation has for yourself and for the community as a whole.

It is worth noting that jiscGEO projects are utilising a new and different style of documentation that is lightweight, open and web-worthy.  Overall we hope the following documentation gets you writing stories for one another as a community, rather than just to the JISC Executive.  We hope to achieve this by having every project use a blog as their primary documentation website so that they can update one another on the progress as they make it.  Once you have achieved your final project products we would then encourage you to launch an official website at the end of your project.  Until then, just get as many thoughts, ideas and win/fail posts up as possible.  Please do not launch your project until you have a real product worth using (no vapourware please!).

Please note, the use of a "blog" should *not* be seen as an informal tool but rather as a system that will assure that all the advice and stories produced from a project have a URL (so you can openly share the advice) and within a feed (so we can move the content around so it is more easily read).

Below is a list of documentation you will need to complete so as to fulfil your remit as a JISC funded project.

= Overview of jiscGEO Project Documentation =
_*There are three sets of documents you are required to complete during the course of your JISCRI project, of which your project blog is the delivery method you should use for publishing everything:*_

  # [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Description_of_a_Project_(DOAP) The 'Description of a Project' page] is where JISC keeps track of the essential information about YOUR project, i.e. the tag for your project, who is working on it, the contact details, for how long, for how much, etc.  This page is *very* significant as it is what feeds all the other JISC systems (CMS, PIMS, CRM, etc) in terms of whom and what we have funded them to produce.
  # [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Project_Blog Your Project Blog]: As explained above, all project documentation must pass through a project blog so that it has a URL (referenced), is within a feed (packaged) and is tagged (organised).  The documentation that must be included in the project blog includes:
    * [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Project_Plan_Posts Project Plan Posts]: 7 posts copy/pasted (and shortened) from your project bid outlining your project plan.
    * [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Progress_Posts Progress Posts]: a minimum of one post per month should be posted *with appropriate tags*, i.e. successful projects usually post at least a paragraph per week.
    * [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Final_Product_Post Final Product Post]: this post lists the final output and product delivered by the project.  This post confirms that you have delivered the product you have been paid to produce.
  # [http://code.google.com/p/jiscgeo/wiki/ProjectDocumentationInstructions#Final_Project_Sign-Off Final Project Budget and Sign-Off Form]: To end your Grant obligations the project must submit and have approved your final spend budget.  Once this is approved JISC will provide a survey for you and your team to fill out which will collect the intangible products of the project (i.e. lessons learned, skills gained, contact made, people influenced, etc).  

Instructions and templates for these three sets of documentation are detailed below.

*_Please remember all documents you create as part of your project are subject to FOI so best to maintain best practice with regards to transparency and openness throughout your project - and don't forget to display your Creative Commons License on EVERYTHING_*

== Description of a Project (DOAP) ==
  # If your Programme Manager hasn't already contacted you please email him (d.flanders@jisc.ac.uk) and inform him of your unique project tag (please read over this guidance on creating a project tag).  You will also need to inform David of a gmail or hotmail account so he can give you edit rights to this wiki.
    * Once you have provided this tag, the Programme Manager will pass back a page in this wiki which you will need to fill out throughout the course of your project (things will change so plan on visiting the page often).  Your project is not complete until all the fields have been filled out in full. 

== Project Blog ==
  * So as to make your life easier we are suggesting a series of blog posts be written for the project as it progresses.
  * The posts are intended to disseminate the knowledge of the project in the now, rather than waiting until the end of the project to share your experiences. 
  * Please make sure to use the correct tags for each post (including your own project tag) so that our robots can come along and aggregate all posts on various topics into our analytics tools (manyEyes, Google Data, etc).  We are hoping this open data approach helps increase the synchronous-ability in which we communicate with one another.
  * The posts can be as short or as long as you like so long as you keep your fellow projects and Higher Education community audience in mind, e.g. what would you want to read from another project?  

=== Project Plan Posts ===

To get your project blog started we REQUIRE that you publish your project plan as a series of project blog posts.  This should be an easy task as you should be copying and pasting your project bid into the following categories (please shorten as much as possible so it is easy to read for anyone who might encounter it on the Web).  And remember you can always come back to the various posts and update them via the comments sections when things change (and they will change).  Also please do take this opportunity to review and change your plan (things always change, and most likely have since you wrote your bid!).

|| *Project Plan Posts* || *Description / Example* || *Required Tags* ||
|| Project Plan Post 1 of 7: Aims, Objectives and Final Output(s) of the project || This post should clearly list the overall aim, the objectives that will support that aim and what outputs will be achieved if the Objectives are achieved. || doap=project+plan, project+plan=aim, project+plan=objectives, project+plan=outputs, project+plan=product, portfolio=inf11, inf11, programme=jiscgeo, jiscgeo, http://www.w3.org/ns/org#org:Organization=http://www.jisc.ac.uk project=[your+project+tag] <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| Project Plan Post 2 of 7 Wider Benefits to Sector & Achievements for Host Institution || JISC projects are often a compromise between benefit to the local institution and the wider University sector.  The best projects are able to find a common middle ground that achieve both.  How are you going to achieve success both for your local institution and the wider community? || projectPlan, institutionalBenefits, communityBenefits, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| Project Plan Post 3 of 7: Risk Analysis and Success Plan || This post should attempt to forecast both the risks or hurdles that might arise as the project progresses as well as how the project will manage sucess if its outputs become extremely popular? || projectPlan, riskAnalysis, successPlan, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| Project Plan Post 4 of 7: IPR (Creative Commons Use & Open Source Software License) || This post should clearly state what licenses will be applied to all work and outputs throughout the course of the project, most importantly this post can then act as a default link to add to other project web pages so IPR is clearly stated and justified ||projectPlan, copyright, IPR, license, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| Project Plan Post 5 of 7: Project Team Relationships and End User Engagement. || This post should explain who is on the project team and what responsibilities they have, also information on how engagement with end users should be included. || projectPlan, projectTeam, users, yourUniqueProjectTag, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag!  ||
|| Project Plan Post 6 of 7: Projected Timeline, Workplan & Overall Project Methodology || A suggested timeline (e.g. gannt or burndown chart should be listed) along with projected workpackages for the project completion.  Also an overall methodology (e.g. Prince, Agile, etc) for how the project deliverables will be achieved should be stated. || projectPlan, timeline, projectMethodology, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag!  ||
|| Project Plan Post 7 of 7: Budget || This initial project budget should be a forecast for future spending along with a justification for why the money should be spent this way, we realise this will change over the course of the project.  Also please take the opportunity to establish where and how the budget will be managed, e.g. will it be a local department account or will it be a central account, will you have your own budget code and who is the person in the budget department you have sat down with to make sure the spending of the money will go smoothly.  The biggest slow down of a project is budget departments questioning payments which can often be solved by establishing a good relationship with your budget department from the start.|| projectPlan, budget, yourUniqueProjectTag, jiscGEO, inf11, jisc <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||

=== Progress Posts ===

The following topics make up some of the suggested Progress Posts (you can do these posts in the order you see as most pragmatic to your project).  MAKE SURE TO USE REQUIRED TAGS where appropriate.

* We would like you to write a blog post on the following themes during the course of your project, though you are welcome to find variance in the theme as you see fit.  We are not prescriptive here and really want you to write something that people in the community will want to read, i.e. don't write them for JISC alone.
  * You must cover all the topic themes (and use all the tags) below: be that in ten separate posts or in three or four longer posts (though our preference is for early and often where possible).
  * Please do be imaginative and use these posts to broadcast the things you are achieving to the wider sector.

|| * Suggested Progress Post Topics* || *Description / Example* || *Required Tags* ||
|| "Project Evaluation" aka iterative reflection || Undertake a quick iterative evaluation process, aka something that can be done when you are board waiting for public transportation (e.g.[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SWOT_analysis SWOT analysis]) of your project.  The key is to truly knowing thyself or at least your project. || SWOT, projectEvaluation, jiscGEO, progressPost, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| "User participation" aka use cases || What is the core user case(s) you think of when developing the app; how has this story changed as you have engaged with the end user e.g. "we often talk about Sam the part time working student we met while at...".  Bonus points for actually talking about real end-users you are working with (note: you are not the end user!) || userCase, endUser, jiscGEO, progressPost, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| "Day-to-day work" aka tools, tips and trick that make you productive || What software tools or productivity methods do you use and how do you use them?  How do they make you more productive and why do you see value in using them?  Any and all tools, methodologies or diagrams showing off the way your project is run from an individual or team perspective are welcome. || methodology, implementation, productivity, progressPosts, jiscGEO, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| "Technical standards" aka stuff you reuse || What technologies, frameworks, standards or anything else that makes your life easier (or harder) in your work.  For example: what programming language (or framework, IDE, pattern, etc) do you use and why do you love it, e.g. "why I love Object Relational Mapping in Python and Django" or "why I think SWORD is great but could do this...", please remember to provide links for standards and acronyms, etc. || techStandards, technicalDevelopment, progressPosts, jiscGEO, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| "Value Add" aka what shifted your thinking in a new direction || What was the most important thing you discovered that brought value to your project, e.g. what was the deciding factor that made you make a specific decision on a what technology, process or human process you were going to use? ||  valueAdd, disruptiveInnovation, progressPosts, jiscGEO, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag! ||
|| "Small WIN(s") & "FAIL(s)"* aka advice others could benefit from ||  Announce small wins for the project, e.g. when you finish a coding sprint or when a user has a 'wow your software is cool' moment.  The more of these short "win" posts the better!  Also don't forget to post the FAIL(s) as well: telling people where things went wrong so they don't repeat mistakes is priceless for a thriving community. || WIN or FAIL, progressPosts, jiscGEO, inf11, JISC, <-- and don't forget your project tag!||

=== Final Product Post === 
This post if an advertisement for your final project product and outputs (DEADLINE: PROJECT END DATE)
For this post you are required to address each one of the elements within the below template.
    * *Template for Final Progress Post* (please copy and paste the below into the html of your final post and fill out accordingly.  Delete comments inside of HTML ignore tags, e.g. "<!-- lorum ipsum doler -->"):
      * [THIS TEMPLATE WILL BE POSTED NEARER THE END OF YOUR PROJECTS BASED ON FEEDBACK FROM PROJECTS ON WHAT PRODUCTS NEED TO BE DELIVERED AND IN WHAT WAY TO THE RIGHT AUDIENCES - PLEASE EMAIL D.FLANDERS@JISC.AC.UK FOR LATEST TEMPLATE]

== Final Project Sign-Off ==
DEADLINE: MONTH DAY DATE (BUDGETS MUST BE APPROVED BY PROGRAMME MANAGERS SO PLEASE SUBMIT WITH TIME TO SPARE)
  * 1.) *Final Budget Template* (everyone must fill this out and have it approved by their programme manager prior to being submitted as the final piece of project documentation)
    * *Instructions for filling out the final budget spreadsheet:* We recommend cloning the following Google Spreadsheet so that it is easy to publish the final budget online once completed.  If you would like to use the Excel version of this template you will be responsible for publishing the budget as a CSV version of the budget on the open web so as to [http://inkdroid.org/journal/2010/06/04/the-5-stars-of-open-linked-data/ make the data open and easily reusable].
    #.) Make sure you are logged into your googleDocs account.
    #.) Go to: http://bit.ly/Template-FinalBudget-JISCRI <-- a template spreadsheet should appear.
    #.) Click on "File" in the upper left hand corner > a drop down menu will appear > click on "Make a copy..." <-- this will bring up a dialog box asking want you want to name the copied spreadsheet.
    #.) Enter in file name with the following syntax: "[ProjectTag]_FinalBudget_Date[useW3C-DTF]_jiscLMS_inf11_JISC" > tick the box "also copy document collaborators" <-- this will share your version of the template with your Programme Manager. > click "ok"
    #.) The document will re-appear but copied and saved in your googleDocs account.
      * To use the Microsoft Excel version of this template, go to http://bit.ly/Template-FinalBudget-JISCRI > "File" > "Download as..." > "CSV" <-- use CSV (excel will still be able to read it, but don't allow Office to turn into an Excel file or it will no longer be in a machine readable format).  You will need to publish the final CSV file in an open and transparent manner.  Please contact your Programme Manager if you have any questions.
      * If you would like to request that the budget be redacted from being published online you will need to write out a project blog post outlining which parts of the budget will need to be redacted and why, this post must justify to the wider community and to JISC why your publiclly funded projects should not be openly reported along with what data about the budget you will be making available to the wider community for reuse.  This report does not guarantee that any parts of the budget will be redacted and is subject to JISC's decision.

  * 2.)*Final Sign-off Survey Form* (Your project is not officially closed until this form is completed in full.  The link to this form will be passed to you by your Programme Manager once you have had your final budget approved).
    * This form should be filled out as a team so as to reflect upon the experiences of the projects.  JISC would ask for your honest and forthright opinion in what lessons were learned and how we could improve things for future projects based on your experience.
    
== Documentation Feedback ==
Please provide any feedback for the above documentation procedure in the below comments section.  