#summary This page describes what things (services) the Programme Manager will provide for your project.
#labels ProgrammeDocumentation

= Service Level Agreement =
_*The following is a list of services that the Programme Manager will provide for your project (please note: each individual Programme Manager has a different style of management and so please get to know your project manager by having frequent correspondence and conversation with him/her).*_

== Aims and Objectives of Your Programme Manager ==
*AIM of Your JISC Programme Manager*: To enable and understand how your project along with the other projects in the programme can have the most impact collectively as is possible.

*Objectives*:
  * To assure projects distribute the outputs and products of their project (both tangible and intangible) to the Higher Education and Further Education communities here in the UK and further abroad.
  * To acquire the themes and future trends so as to explain the future as it is in the process of changing and to help guide future funding endeavours by synthesising the theme's...
  * To audit the project's activities to assure the Grant funding is optimised on behalf of all Higher and Further Education instituions and on behalf of the UK tax payer who is the ultimate benefactor of these projects.

Or in more poetical terms,
http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3536/3465474060_c2b0604246.jpg?v=0
the general metaphor for 'what a programme manager does' can be surmised as a "lightning rod": existing in the HE/FE 'ether' so as to try and take advantage of the patterns across all the projects ('in the clouds') and bring their ideas down to earth so we can organise around the significant memes as a community (the other analogy is that of a "mutualistic communal organism", but that is not as cool as a "lightning rod" <zap!> ;-)

=== Principles of Your Programme Manager ===
Some principles that guide your programme manager in working with your project as a collective of projects (having overseen 200+ projects as a programme manager there are some common patterns that emerge that I have to continually re-assert):

  * I value your WINs as much as your FAILs
    * I _must_ be told about the physical/digital outputs (tangible products) of your project as well as the lessons learned (intangible products) as they are both valuable to the community, e.g. a intangible learned failure can stop another project from making the same mistake, which can lead to another project producing a (tangible) product for the community (ying/yang).

  * _Help me help you_, by feeding back _EARLY and OFTEN_
    * All documentation I require from the project is designed to tell the community (not me) about the things your projects is doing and producing.

  * “Paradoxically, the best way for a group to be smart is for each person in it to think and act as independently as possible.”  Or rather the wisdom of the group is in the aggregated ideas and thoughts of each individual.
    * You're the expert, and the funding JISC is providing you is making you more of an expert; accordingly you have a responsibility to share that expertise with the community in an aggregated form, so start blogging and enabling events to happen that share that expertise.

  * Make it SIMPLZ or KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid)
    * Using acronyms and scholarly language has its place, but your programme manager must communicate the idea of your project in less than ten second with a sentence or two to multiple audiences (including the powers that be) which will make or break future funding in your area so it behoves you to keep it simple and poignant so I can do likewise. Remember JISC has over 200 projects on the go at any given time so you are competing for attention and often brevity and wit are the best ways to get the attention your project needs to succeed. 


=== Your Programme Manager's Dislikes ===
Things your programme manager does NOT like (though I always welcome challenges on my likes/dislikes):

  * Please talk to the community not me: in writing your project blog posts they should be for peers in your community, not pandering to the JISC Executive.
  * The most laborious part of my job is keeping track of the documentation projects are _*required*_ to produce, I keep a page for each individual project within this wiki so please help me make sure I have all the names, URLs and information about your project. 
  * Please don't make continually remind you of deadlines and documentation as it is all clearly articulated via the ProjectDocumentationInstructions page, though I welcome questions and slight amendments as it suites the project.
  * I will articulate deadlines for project documentation well in advance of the due date and projects are expected to adhere to them (if you are late you should expect to sit down for a risk assessment audit).
  * Failure to actively communicate with me or via our project blog will result in the JISC policy office contacting senior managers in your institution to discuss what procedures we will need to put in place to assure that this does occur.
  * Project who do not attempt to reach out to other likeminded JISC projects is frowned, upon.  I don't expect formal agreements between projects but I do expect a friendly and welcoming attitude of sharing to be provided between all JISC funded projects.  

== Chronological examples of service rendered by Programme Manager to individual projects ==

From a typical 6-12 month project the following can be expected from the Programme Manager:
  * A face-to-face SiteVisit to the host project institution to meet and greet the project team (project manager, developers and bonus points if we can meet a real end user!)
  * A Programme Meeting with all projects in attendance
    * Guidance and knowledge sharing on what skills need to be developed as an effective project manager and innovation development team.
    * Getting you to know other projects <- projects do better when they find other projects to informally talk about things.
    * Having you meet 'critical friends' in the JISC community: jiscGECO community, UKOLN Support Centre, CETIS Support Centre, IPR Consultancy, Marketing and Advertisement support, etc.
    * You usually get a nice meal out of it, let alone the networking opportunities :)
  * Quarterly Executive Newsletter updates on status of the programme as a whole
    * Also reminders for when your next project documentation is due.
  * Notifying you of any support projects or training events that might be applicable to the programme
    * e.g. developer community days, support team projects, evaluation and IPR workshops, etc.
  * Support for any project events of significance
    * Of particular interest are events that involve actual end users
    * Any multi-developer gathering: talkShop, barcamp, pair-programming, etc.
  * On call (twitter, skype, email, etc.) support on any queries.
    * Preference for asynchronous short messages if possible (e.g. twitter, skype, etc.)
    * Always glad to have a quick chat on the phone/skype (david.flanders), I usually try and work from home on Mondays and welcome ad hoc calls on those days.
  * Attendance at final project events
    * Meetings with senior management
    * Final evaluation lunches 
    * Software launch events
  * Encouraging you to come along to community events, 
    * e.g. the JISC conference, other relevant Programme meetings
  * Asking for your advice on other similar projects
    * Asking exemplary projects to mark the next round of bids for funding
    * Acquiring expert advice to advise or sit on JISC working groups

= Transparency and Licensing =
Please note any communications with the JISC Programme manager are subject to the Freedom and Information Act.  To assure that FoI is met your Programme Manager will attempt to publish as much information as possible online and in the open.  Accordingly, please know that than any email or communication with your Programme Manager will be made available online unless otherwise requested or if it contains personally sensitive data (otherwise the default is open).  As each JISC project is also spending tax payer money I would encourage you to keep everything in the open and transparent for anyone to comment upon.  The default license used for all information created by the Programme Manager is Creative-Common-Attribution-ShareAlike, as specified in the licensing section of this website.

= Project Manager / Primary Investigator SLA Sign-Off =
PLEASE MAKE SURE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE READING OF THIS DOCUMENT BY LEAVING YOUR NAME AND A COMMENT, for example:
  * If you could let me know how many other JISC projects you have participated in or lead on; or if this is your first JISC project and/or role as a project manager?
  * Any tips or hints from experienced project managers greatly appreciated?
  * Any questions from first time project manager on how JISC can help support you in gaining more skills as a project manager?
  
You'll need to have a gmail or hotmail account to sign in and leave a comment.