Characteristics of a good synthesis liaison:
  * Be thorough and friendly with projects: some of the most intuitive information you collect for synthesising will be via a random skype or phone conversation.  Project like talking about what they do so don't be afraid to ask call/IM and ask projects some quick questions.
  * It is your job to see past the bias of individual projects and see the programme as a whole.  Individual project always think their work is the most significant, you must see past this. Also, the Programme Manager and their oversight of the programme is just another "project" amongst all the other projects in the programme, i.e. the Programme Manager (no matter what they say) are personally engaged in this work and see things that are not as significant as they think.  Be mindful of your emotions jedi ;-)

Day-to-day tasks for a synthesis liaison
  * Read any new comments and figure out some way to record these comments and how they are getting grouped and themed across the programme (your job is to be the anthropologist observing and bringing the "outside" perspective).
  * Create a conversation between the projects and make lots of comments on their blogs, even if it is just copying and pasting particular quotes from the blogs into common themes.  Using quotes from blogs to support the themes you see emerging is the right way to do your job!

Bi-monthly tasks
  * Each month you should publish a kind of newsletter that highlights and quotes significant efforts achieved over the past month.  You should be categorising these highlights as common overall themes.  It is very much your job to create the classification system for organising these projects as well as highlighting the successes (no matter how small) as they happen.

Overall task
  * By the end of the programme you will need to go back and look at all your bi-monthly reports and do one last report that synthesis your own work and declares the most significant themes and helps classify the products produced (both tangible and intangible) to the themes you have observed.  This final report will feed into both the overall programme evaluation (synthesised themes over all of JISC portfolios of programmes) and into a communication strategy that will help disseminate the products that the project have achieved to other Universities throughout the UK.  An example of this is the JISC Toolshed Newspaper produced for the #jiscRI programme.

What to collect:
  * Products:
    * The most significant thing to understand from all projects is/are the products they will have produced by the end of the programme.  There are generally two types of products produced, tangible and intangible.
    * For example, tangible products are the actual things created that can be passed on or reused after the end of the project.  Examples include 

